[appendix]
:appendix-caption: Annex
== Code lists for the HY_Features model

[#annexB_1]
=== Terms identifying a location determined to realize conceptual hydro nexus

[width="100%",cols="20%,80%",]
|=======================================================================
a|
*Code list*

 a|
*Realized Nexus Type*

|barrage |barrier across a stream provided with a series of gates or
other control mechanisms to control the water-surface level upstream, to
regulate the flow or to divert water supplies into a canal.

|bifurcation |division of a stream into two branches.

|catchment outlet |common outlet for the runoff drained by the
catchment.

|confluence |joining, or the place of junction, of two or more streams.

|dam |barrier constructed across a valley for impounding water or
creating a reservoir.

|diversion of water |transfer of water from one watercourse to another,
such watercourses being either natural or man-made.

|extraction well |shaft or hole sunk, dug or drilled into the earth to
extract water.

|fork |(1) place where two or more streams flow together to form a
larger stream. (2) place where a stream divides into two or more
streams.

|hydrometric station |station at which data on water in rivers, lakes or
reservoirs are obtained on one or more of the following elements: stage,
streamflow, sediment transport and deposition, water temperature and
other physical properties of water, characteristics of ice cover and
chemical properties of water.

|infiltration well |recharge well that is sunk only into the unsaturated
zone distinguished from an injection well.

|inlet structure |structure admitting water supplies from the source or
through an intake structure built upstream.

|intake |structure or site, the purpose of which is to control,
regulate, divert, and admit water directly from the source, through an
inlet built upstream.

|outlet structure |opening (structure) through which water flows out or
is extracted from a reservoir or stream.

|ponor |hole or opening in the bottom or side of a depression where a
surface stream or lake flows either partially or completely underground
into a karst groundwater system.

|pour point |specified catchment outlet defined to delineate a catchment
upslope from that point.

|rapids |reach of a stream where the flow is very swift and shooting,
and where the surface is usually broken by obstructions, but has no
actual waterfall or cascade.

|reference climatological station |climatological station the data of
which are intended for the purpose of determining climatic trends. This
requires long periods (not less than thirty years) of homogeneous
records, where man-made environmental changes have been and/or are
expected to remain at a minimum. Ideally the records should be of
sufficient length to enable the identification of secular changes of
climate.

|river mouth |place of discharge of a river into a sea or a lake.

|sinkhole |place where water disappears underground in a limestone
region. It generally implies water loss in a closed depression or blind
valley.

|source |origin of river.

|spring |place where water flows naturally from a rock or soil onto land
or into a body of surface water.

|waterfall |vertical fall or the very steep descent of a stream of
water.

|weir |overflow structure which may be used for controlling upstream
water level or for measuring discharge or for both.
|=======================================================================

[#annexB_2]
=== Terms commonly used in hydrology to describe a spatial relation between two locations

[width="100%",cols="20%,80%",]
|=======================================================================
a|
*Code list*

 a|
*Distance Description*

|at |located at the (reference) location.

|between |located between two (reference) locations.

|downstream |located downstream of the (reference) location, e.g. in the
direction of the current in a river or stream.

|left |located left-hand of the (reference) location when facing
downstream.

|nearby |located a short distance from the (reference) location.

|right |located right-hand of the (reference) location when facing
downstream.

|upstream |located upstream of the (reference) location, e.g. in the
direction towards the source of a stream.
|=======================================================================

[#annexB_3]
=== Terms commonly used in hydrology to describe a drainage pattern

[width="100%",cols="20%,80%",]
|=======================================================================
a|
*Code list*

 a|
*Drainage Pattern*

|annular |main rivers that have a circular pattern with subsidiary channels at
right angles.

|centripetal |streams that flow inward to center.

|dendritic |spreading treelike arrangement (when viewed in an upstream direction) converging into a single outlet downstream; no evident orientation of
channels (random orientation).

|distributary |one main channel divides into many channel-ways ending
with many outlets.

|parallel |main channels regularly spaced and parallel or sub-parallel
to each other; tributaries join at very acute angles.

|pinnate |featherlike, closely grouped , short tributaries (fine
texture).

|radial |streams flow outward from center.

|rectangular |drainage forms a perpendicular net with the two directions
equally developed.

|trellis |a dominant drainage direction with a secondary direction
perpendicular to this; primary tributaries join main stream at right
angles, secondary tributaries parallel main stem.
|=======================================================================

[#annexB_4]
=== Terms commonly used to indicate the type of name usage.

[width="100%",cols="20%,80%",]
|=======================================================================
a|
*Code list*

 a|
*Usage Type*

|conventional |accepted, used, or practiced by most people ('agreed by
convention')

|historical |restricted to or based on fact in history

|official |ordered or allowed by those in authority

|vernacular |used in or suitable for speech, usually not used in formal
writing
|=======================================================================