[appendix]
:appendix-caption: Annex
== HY_Features - NHDPlusÂ  Mapping

This is a descriptive mapping for the USGS National Hydrography Dataset
Plus (NHDPlus) link:#MCKAY2012[[10\]]. It is intended to provide an understanding of the
basic relationship of HY_Features concepts and the NHDPlus hydrologic
feature implementation.

[#annexD_1]
=== Catchment Model


[width="100%",cols="20%,20%,60%",]
|=======================================================================
a|
*HY_Features Name*

 a|
*NHDPlus Name*

 a|
*Comment*

|HY_Catchment |comid catchment |The comid catchment is the feature that
takes part in PlusFlow topology table, has associated accumulated
characteristics, etc. Could also be the collection of catchments that
contribute to a given reachcode reach, HUC watershed outlet, or another
identifiable watershed outlet. Not necessarily the catchment polygon
features, but more generally, the unit of hydrology represented by
catchment polygons and other data keyed to the comid.

|HY_DendriticCatchment |comid catchment |NHDPlus catchments not
following any diversions in the flow tables

|HY_InteriorCatchment |comid catchment |NHDPlus catchments that do not
contribute flow.

|HY_CatchmentAggregate |collection of comid catchments |Including
interior catchments and not following diversions in the flow tables

|HY_HydroNexus |fromNode or toNode |NHDPlus nodes are inflow (fromNode)
and outflow (toNode) nodes of a given comid catchment.

|HY_HydroLocation |fromNode or toNode location, point location of point
events, etc. |HY_HydroLocation can be used as a reference location for
any point associated with a feature. Typically, this is for hydro nexus
locations and monitoring locations, but may be used for many other
feature types. The downstream end and upstream end of an NHDPlus
flowline would be considered the hydro location of a hydro nexus.

|HY_CatchmentRealization |Any entity that is identified by a comid |In
NHDPlus, the comid identifies an unrealized catchment. Any geometric or
topologic data that is referenced to a comid can be said to realize that
catchment. This includes upstream aggregations of the network or
catchment areas that form complete watersheds.

|HY_CatchmentArea |Not Represented |While the polygon representing a
catchment might be thought of as an area, the subset of a DEM or another
land cover dataset would be more in line with the meaning of
CatchmentArea.

|HY_CatchmentDivide |comid catchment polygon |The polygon representing a
comid catchment should be thought of as the CatchmentDivide

|HY_CartographicRealization |A map of a catchment |The NHDPlus dataset
doesn't include any, but if a map view of a catchment is created at any
scale, it could be said to be a cartographic realization of a catchment.
|=======================================================================

[#annexD_2]
=== Hydrographic Network

[width="100%",cols="20%,20%,60%",]
|=======================================================================
a|
*HY_Features Name*

 a|
*NHDPlus Name*

 a|
*Comment*

|HY_HydrographicNetwork |collection of flowlines and waterbodies |The
collection of perennial and ephemeral flowlines as well as so-called
double line streams and on-network lakes within any collection of
catchments (an HY_Catchment) can be considered its hydrographic network.

|HY_WaterBody |Perennial flowlines and waterbodies |Perennial flowlines
are thought to represent waterbodies as well as waterbody polygons that
represent wide streams and lakes. These features indicate that there is
water contained in some channel or other container.

|HY_ChannelNetwork |Not represented |

|HY_Depression |Not represented |

|HY_Channel |Ephemeral flowlines. |While NHD doesn't have an explicit
channel concept, ephemeral flowlines can be thought of as a channel in
that they indicate that water can flow there, but may not be present in
the flowline container at all times.

|HY_Reservoir |waterbodies that are reservoirs |Any waterbody that can
be categorized as a reservoir in that it is a waterbody that has a
management regime.

|HY_FlowPath |flowlines and reaches |A flowline (or reach) is a linear
representation of the catchment (or collection of catchments associated
with a reach) it shares an id with. For NHD Events, the reachcode reach
is the flowpath because it is the linear element used for linear
referencing.

|HY_LongitudinalSection |Not represented |

|HY_CrossSection |Not represented |

|HY_WaterBodyStratum |Not represented |

|HY_Water_LiquidPhase |Not represented |

|HY_Water_SolidPhase |Not represented |
|=======================================================================

[#annexD_3]
=== Hydrometric Network

[width="100%",cols="20%,20%,60%",]
|=======================================================================
a|
*HY_Features Name*

 a|
*NHDPlus Name*

 a|
*Comment*

|HY_HydrometricNetwork |collection of events |A collection of events
that are hydrometric features could be considered a hydrometric network.

|HY_HydrometricFeature |event |A hydrometric feature, such as a stream
gaging station, is represented as an event.

|HY_IndirectPosition |measure |The measure is an indirect position of
type relative position because it is a percent.
|=======================================================================