== Scope

This OGC Implementation Standard defines a common conceptual feature
model for use in identification of features as typical features of the
hydrology domain using established models and patterns in use in the
Hydrology domain and endorsed by WMO and UNESCO such as those documented
in the "International Glossary of Hydrology". +

This standard, along with expected future implementations of this
conceptual model, will form the third part of an intended 'OGC WaterML
2' suite of standards that groups water-related OGC standards. Following
_Part 1: Timeseries_, _Part 2:_ __Ratings, Gaugings and Sections__, this
standard is titled _Part 3: Surface Hydrology Features Conceptual
Model_. +

This document introduces the HY_Features conceptual model only. The
normative model is a machine-readable UML artifact published by the OGC
in conjunction with this document at: #*[insert URL here]*#. Clause 7 of
this document presents requirements classes (ways of conforming to the
conceptual model) and requirements for model implementations to meet in
order to be considered conformant with the conceptual model. Conformance
classes indicating how to demonstrate conformance to requirements are
presented in Annex A. +

Future standards documents in this series are expected to specify
particular implementations of the conceptual model. For example, an
OWL/RDF implementation will define machine-processable entities and
relationships in the OWL schema language that implement the HY_Features
conceptual model elements. HY_Features implementations are expected to
support documentation and discovery of data as well as aid data
transformation efforts. For example, a discovery service such as a
catchment catalog might use HY_Features concepts to index services that
provide differing catchment representations as well as related water
quality and quantity observations. A catalog client could then use the
index for automated analysis and data product generation. +

The initial scope has been defined by the WMO Commission for Hydrology
(WMO-CHy): to facilitate data sharing within the hydrologic community of
the WMO Member countries and to improve the quality of data products
based on these data by defining hydrologic features to convey their
identification through the data processing chain "from measurement to
hydrological information" link:#WMO2012[[8\]]. +

To enable semantic interoperability of hydrologic data and services, it
is necessary to agree on common concepts and methods. The HY_Features
model was developed in order to formalize concepts and relationships of
hydrologic and hydrographic features using the WMO/UNESCO "International
Glossary of Hydrology" as a starting point. One of HY_Features main
objectives is to provide a standard terminology for description of
relationships between hydrologic features that can be used to implement
data transfer formats. However, this conceptual model should be seen as
a building block toward a hydrographic data interchange standard,
but such a standard would require additional efforts. +

HY_Features is meant to support linking data products across differing
applications and jurisdictions. To enable this, the concept of a
holistic catchment is defined and "hydrology-specific realizations" of
the catchment concept are modeled as typical hydrologic features. This
allows a particular catchment to be represented in different feature
data products for different purposes while still retaining its identity. +

The HY_Features model provides a basis for common and stable references
that identify hydrologic features in a wide variety of applications: +

* to link hydrologic observations to their feature-of-interest, e.g.
link a streamflow observation to the river or catchment being observed,
* to allow aggregation of cross-referenced features into integrated
data sets and data products on global, regional, or basin scales,
* to enable systems to unambiguously link data between systems and
domains,
* to enable cross-domain or multi-discipline services to communicate
through reference to standard concepts.

While HY_Features is intended to support a wide variety of applications,
it is narrowly focused on surface water hydrographic features. As such,
nuances of waterbodies and storages such as glaciers, snowfields, and
wetlands are left to future work. Additionally, temporal aspects of
hydrologic features are not addressed in this standard and would be
expected to be handled by implementations using HY_Features classes for
feature identification. Finally, as this standard precedes expected
encoding standards, implementation details, such as the structure and
handling of feature identifiers are out of scope. +

This standard defines a conceptual model (normative) containing feature
type definitions that conform to the OGC General Feature Model (GFM)
(ISO 19101:2002 and ISO 19109:2006), expressed in the Geographic
Information Conceptual Schema Language (ISO 19103:2005) using the
Unified Modeling Language (UML). The GFM is a meta-model developed as a
general framework for features and their properties in the context of
geographic information. Feature types specific to an application domain
are defined as instances of the general feature metaclass with their own
sets of typical characteristics (property types and constraints) such as
attributes, associations, or operations. +

As shown in link:#figure1[Figure 1], the HY_Features conceptual model 
defines instances of the general feature metaclass specific to the hydrology 
domain. A general HY_HydroFeature type is defined to carry properties such as
identifier and name that all hydrologic features should have. Specific
feature types are then derived from HY_HydroFeature to reflect different
aspects of hydrology and carry properties specific to each aspect.
link:#figure1[Figure 1] also illustrates that HY_Features features can 
fill the role of features-of-interest or sampling features for hydrologic 
observation data conforming to the Observation and Measurement (O&M) model 
(ISO 19156:2011) or to hydro-specific O&M profiles such as in the OGC
WaterML 2' suite of water-related standards. +

[#figure1]
.HY_Features in the context of the OGC Abstract Specifications
image::figures/fig1.png[]